[docs] Adds Workflows documentation (#32840)
expo/expo: docs/pages/workflows/get-started.mdx

---
title: Get Started
description: Learn how to use Workflows to automate your development and release processes.
---

import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons/outline/BookOpen02Icon';

import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';
import { Callout } from '~/ui/components/Callout';
import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';

<Callout type="info">
  Workflows are currently in preview. We may introduce breaking changes in the coming weeks. Got
  feedback? Send us an email at workflows@expo.dev.
</Callout>

Builds, submissions, updates and more are all a part of delivering your app to users. Workflows consist of a sequence of jobs, which help you and your team get things done. You can do things like building your project, run end-to-end tests, submit that build to the app stores, then run custom scripts after the submission is complete. Since each job can have prerequisites and conditionals, you can automate you and your team's release process.

<Collapsible summary="How do workflows compare to other CI services?">

> Workflows on EAS are designed to help you and your team release your app. It comes preconfigured with pre-packaged job types that help you build, submit, update, run Maestro tests, and more. It all runs on EAS, so you'll only have to manage one set of YAML files, and all of the artifacts from your job runs will appear on expo.dev.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflows on EAS are designed to help you and your team release your app. It comes preconfigured with pre-packaged job types that can build, submit, update, run Maestro tests, and more. All job types run on EAS, so you'll only have to manage one set of YAML files, and all the artifacts from your job runs will appear on [expo.dev](https://expo.dev/).
```

Let's make it a bit concise. It'll be an improvement to define pre-packaged jobs in the intro maybe.

Workflows are great for operations related to your Expo apps, while other CICD services will provide a better experience for other types of workflows.

</Collapsible>

## Set up your project

If you haven't already, you'll need to create a project and sync it with EAS:

<Collapsible summary="Create a project and sync it with EAS">
  You can create a new project with the following command:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app@latest']} />

Once you've created the project, login with your account:

{' '}

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest login']} />

Finally, link the project you have locally with EAS:

  <Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest init']} />
</Collapsible>

Then, create a directory named **.eas/workflows** at the root of your project with a **.yaml** file inside of it. For example: **.eas/workflows/hello-world.yaml**.

## Write a workflow

Each workflow consists of three top-level elements:

> - `name`: defines the name of the workflow. For example: "Hello World!"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `name`: defines the name of the workflow. For example: "Hello World"
```

Just to align with the example below, let's remove the exclamation mark from here.

> - `on`: defines when this workflow should be triggered. For example: when pushing a new commit to a GitHub branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `on`: defines when this workflow should be triggered. For example, when pushing a new commit to a GitHub branch.
```

> - `jobs`: a sequence of jobs which can depend on and pass data between each other. For example: a job that runs a unit test followed by a job that builds your project into an app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `jobs`: a sequence of jobs which can be interdependent and pass data between each other. For example, a job that runs a unit test followed by a job that builds your project into an app.
```

> Here's an example of a workflow that prints "Hello world!":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example of a workflow that prints "Hello, world":
```

Let's match the printed statement as described below.

```yaml .eas/workflows/hello-world.yaml
name: Hello World

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  Hello World:
    steps:
      - run: echo "Hello, World"
```

Here's another example that creates and submits an iOS build of a project on every push to every branch. This is similar to running `eas build --platform ios --profile production --auto-submit`:

```yaml .eas/workflows/ios-build-and-submit.yaml
name: Release iOS app

on:
  push:
    branches: ['*']

jobs:
  build:
    type: build
    params:
      platform: ios
      profile: production
  submit:
    needs: [build]
    type: submit
    params:
      build_id: ${{ needs.build.outputs.build_id }}
```

## Configure your project

> To enable workflows to run on events from GitHub, you'll need to install Expo's GitHub app and connect it to your project. Here's how:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable workflows to run on events from GitHub, you'll need to install Expo's GitHub app and connect it to your project:
```

The next two list items are self explanatory so we can omit this.

- Navigate to your project's [GitHub settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/%5Baccount%5D/projects/%5BprojectName%5D/github)
- Follow the UI to install the GitHub app. Then search for the GitHub repository that matches the Expo project and connect it.

## Run your workflow

Once you have a workflow file and your project is connected to Expo's GitHub app, you can trigger your workflow by pushing a commit to your GitHub repository. For the workflow to run, you'll need to make sure the trigger (defined with `on`) you defined in your workflow is met.

Alternatively, you can trigger a workflow manually by running the following command:

<Terminal cmd={['$ npx eas-cli@latest workflow:run .eas/workflows/<your-workflow-file>.yaml']} />

Once you do, you can see your workflow running on your project's [workflows page](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/projects/[projectName]/workflows).

> ## Next steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Building blocks
```

Let's call this section building blocks instead of next steps since they (the links below) can be viewed in any order.
